# Enron Email Analysis
Complete an exploratory analysis for the Enron email dataset to identify a intersting trends in the data.
## Data Cleaning
The enron email dataset was downloaded from kaggle as a csv file. The raw data consisted of a file columns and a message column. The message field contained all the neccessary information about each email such as the sender, recipient, time, and actual message content. The best way to store all information appropriately would be to have a column for each field (from, to, date, message, cc, etc.). Because of the original message column containing all the information was in the form of a key value pair, the keys were extracted as the main fields and the value was the appropriate value for each field. Thus a final dataframe was created with the keys being the new column headers and the values being the associated rows. Finally the 'Date' column was converted to a Datetime object for later analysis.
## Intial Analysis
The first step was to observe the emails addressess contributing most to the dataset. To do this, the email addresses found most frequently in the 'From' column and the 'To' column were identified. These emails or would be those who sent and received the most emails.
## Date Analysis
The first part of the exploratory analysis consisted of looking at who was sending and receiving the most emails. Because the 'Date' column was converted to a Datetime object in the cleaning process the specific day of the week and date of each Datetime object could be extracted. To get the total emails sent per day the rows were iterrated through and each corresponding day of the week was appropriately incremented. To find the average per day, it was important to the find the number of distinct Mondays, Tuesdays, etc. Then the total from each day could be divided by the number of distinct days and finally plotted.
## Time Analysis
The first part of the exploratory analysis consisted of looking at who was sending and receiving the most emails. Because the 'Date' column was converted to a Datetime object in the cleaning process the specific day of the week and date of each Datetime object could be extracted. To get the total emails sent per day the rows were iterrated through and each corresponding day of the week was appropriately incremented. To find the average per day, it was important to the find the number of distinct Mondays, Tuesdays, etc. Then the total from each day could be divided by the number of distinct days and finally plotted.
## Graph Analysis
Because the email dataset consists of a 'from' and 'to' column one way to visually model the data is through a graph, specifically an undirected a graph. Each node in the graph represents each email address and the edges represent every email sent between various email addresses.